docs/architecture/components/integration_service/schemas/integration_instances.md, before:

# Integration Instances

## Overview

Integration instances are concrete, configured connections to external services based on integration definitions. They:

* Store authentication credentials securely
* Provide context-specific configurations
* Maintain connection state information
* Allow multiple instances of the same integration type with different configurations
* Support scoping to specific contexts (global, client, or user)

## Key Concepts

* **Integration Instance** - A configured instance of an integration definition
* **Context** - The scope in which an integration instance operates (global, client, user)
* **Credentials** - Securely stored authentication details
* **Configuration** - Instance-specific settings
* **Status** - The current operational state of the instance

## Integration Instance Structure

```json
{
  "instanceId": "string",          // Unique identifier for this instance
  "integrationId": "string",       // Reference to integration definition
  "name": "string",                // Human-readable name for this instance
  "description": "string",         // Optional description
  "context": {                     // Optional scoping context
    "type": "global | client | user",
    "contextId": "string"          // ID of client/user if scoped
  },
  "credentials": {                 // Encrypted credentials
    // Stored encrypted in database
  },
  "config": {                     // Instance specific configuration
    // Configuration values matching configSchema
  },
  "status": {                     // Current status of the integration
    "state": "active | inactive | error",
    "lastChecked": "timestamp",
    "error": "string"
  }
}
```

## Context Resolution

Integration instances can be scoped to different contexts:


1. **Global Context:**
   * Available throughout the entire system
   * Typically used for system-wide integrations
   * No contextId required
2. **Client Context:**
   * Scoped to a specific client
   * Only available for workflows within that client's context
   * Requires client contextId
3. **User Context:**
   * Scoped to a specific user
   * Only available for workflows initiated by that user
   * Requires user contextId

Integration instance resolution follows a hierarchical order:

* First check for user-scoped instances
* If none found, check for client-scoped instances
* If none found, use global instances
* If multiple instances exist at the same scope, select based on status and last used

## Credential Management

Credentials are stored securely and managed carefully:

* Encrypted at rest using PostgreSQL's `pgcrypto`
* Never exposed in plaintext through APIs
* Automatically refreshed for OAuth2 tokens
* Regular rotation policies for long-lived credentials
* Access control restrictions on credential viewing

Example credential storage (representation, not actual encrypted data):

```json
{
  "credentials": {
    "oauth2": {
      "access_token": "[ENCRYPTED]",
      "refresh_token": "[ENCRYPTED]",
      "expires_at": "2023-06-30T12:00:00Z"
    }
  }
}
```

## Status Monitoring

Each integration instance maintains status information:

* Current operational state (active, inactive, error)
* Last connectivity check timestamp
* Error details if applicable
* Health check frequency configurable per integration type

Example status information:

```json
{
  "status": {
    "state": "active",
    "lastChecked": "2023-06-29T10:15:30Z",
    "error": null,
    "metrics": {
      "averageResponseTime": 120,
      "successRate": 99.8,
      "lastUsed": "2023-06-29T09:45:22Z"
    }
  }
}
```

## Example Integration Instance

```json
{
  "instanceId": "xero_main",
  "integrationId": "xero",
  "name": "Main Xero Account",
  "description": "Primary Xero integration for company accounting",
  "context": {
    "type": "global"
  },
  "credentials": {
    // Encrypted in database
  },
  "config": {
    "tenant_id": "xyz123"
  },
  "status": {
    "state": "active",
    "lastChecked": "2024-03-15T10:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

## Database Schema

**Table: integration_instances**

| Field | Type | Description |
|----|----|----|
| id | UUID | Primary key |
| instance_id | VARCHAR(255) | Unique identifier for this instance |
| integration_definition_id | UUID | Reference to integration definition |
| name | VARCHAR(255) | Human-readable name for this instance |
| description | TEXT | Optional description |
| context_type | context_scope_enum | Context type ENUM ('global', 'client', 'user'), defaults to 'global' |
| context_id | VARCHAR(255) | ID of client/user if scoped (NULL if context_type is 'global') |
| credentials | BYTEA | Encrypted credentials (using pgcrypto via application layer) |
| config | JSONB | Instance specific configuration |
| status | JSONB | Current status information |
| created_at | TIMESTAMP | Creation timestamp |
| updated_at | TIMESTAMP | Last update timestamp |
| last_used_at | TIMESTAMP | When this integration was last used |

**Indexes:**

* `integration_instances_instance_id_idx` UNIQUE on `instance_id` (for lookups)
* `integration_instances_context_idx` on `(context_type, context_id)` (for finding instances in a context)
* `integration_instances_definition_idx` on `integration_definition_id` (for finding all instances of a definition)
* `integration_instances_status_idx` GIN on `status` (for finding instances by status)

**JSON Schema (credentials field):**

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "oauth2": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "access_token": { "type": "string" },
        "refresh_token": { "type": "string" },
        "expires_at": { "type": "string", "format": "date-time" }
      }
    },
    "apikey": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "key": { "type": "string" },
        "secret": { "type": "string" }
      }
    },
    "custom": {
      "type": "object"
    }
  }
}
```

## Security Considerations

Integration instances require special security attention:

* All credentials are encrypted at rest
* Access to credentials is strictly controlled
* Audit logging records all credential access
* Regular credential rotation is enforced where possible
* OAuth2 refresh tokens are automatically rotated
* Failed authentication attempts are monitored and reported
* Integration instance creation requires appropriate permissions

## Performance Considerations

For integration instances, consider these performance optimizations:

* Cache active integration instances for frequently used integrations
* Implement connection pooling for shared integrations
* Monitor connection usage patterns to optimize instance counts
* Implement circuit breakers for error-prone integrations
* Consider rate limiting to prevent external service throttling
* Batch operations where possible to reduce connection overhead

## Related Documentation

* [Integration Definitions](./integration_definitions.md) - Documentation for integration definitions
* [Task Definitions](./task_definitions.md) - Task definitions that use integrations
* [Workflow Definitions](./workflow_definitions.md) - Workflow definitions that incorporate tasks using integrations
* [Database Architecture](../database_architecture.md) - Overall database architecture

Commit message:

Updated integration service documentation and SQL migrations. Enhanced credential storage description in data model, clarified BYTEA type usage in schemas, and added an icon URL field to integration definitions. Seed data for integration instances was also expanded to include multiple integrations with corresponding test instances.

docs/architecture/components/integration_service/schemas/integration_instances.md, after:

# Integration Instances

## Overview

Integration instances are concrete, configured connections to external services based on integration definitions. They:

* Store authentication credentials securely
* Provide context-specific configurations
* Maintain connection state information
* Allow multiple instances of the same integration type with different configurations
* Support scoping to specific contexts (global, client, or user)

## Key Concepts

* **Integration Instance** - A configured instance of an integration definition
* **Context** - The scope in which an integration instance operates (global, client, user)
* **Credentials** - Securely stored authentication details
* **Configuration** - Instance-specific settings
* **Status** - The current operational state of the instance

## Integration Instance Structure

```json
{
  "instanceId": "string",          // Unique identifier for this instance
  "integrationId": "string",       // Reference to integration definition
  "name": "string",                // Human-readable name for this instance
  "description": "string",         // Optional description
  "context": {                     // Optional scoping context
    "type": "global | client | user",
    "contextId": "string"          // ID of client/user if scoped
  },
  "credentials": {                 // Encrypted credentials
    // Stored encrypted in database
  },
  "config": {                     // Instance specific configuration
    // Configuration values matching configSchema
  },
  "status": {                     // Current status of the integration
    "state": "active | inactive | error",
    "lastChecked": "timestamp",
    "error": "string"
  }
}
```

## Context Resolution

Integration instances can be scoped to different contexts:


1. **Global Context:**
   * Available throughout the entire system
   * Typically used for system-wide integrations
   * No contextId required
2. **Client Context:**
   * Scoped to a specific client
   * Only available for workflows within that client's context
   * Requires client contextId
3. **User Context:**
   * Scoped to a specific user
   * Only available for workflows initiated by that user
   * Requires user contextId

Integration instance resolution follows a hierarchical order:

* First check for user-scoped instances
* If none found, check for client-scoped instances
* If none found, use global instances
* If multiple instances exist at the same scope, select based on status and last used

## Credential Management

Credentials are stored securely and managed carefully:

* Encrypted at rest using PostgreSQL's `pgcrypto`
* Never exposed in plaintext through APIs
* Automatically refreshed for OAuth2 tokens
* Regular rotation policies for long-lived credentials
* Access control restrictions on credential viewing

Example credential storage (representation, not actual encrypted data):

```json
{
  "credentials": {
    "oauth2": {
      "access_token": "[ENCRYPTED]",
      "refresh_token": "[ENCRYPTED]",
      "expires_at": "2023-06-30T12:00:00Z"
    }
  }
}
```

## Status Monitoring

Each integration instance maintains status information:

* Current operational state (active, inactive, error)
* Last connectivity check timestamp
* Error details if applicable
* Health check frequency configurable per integration type

Example status information:

```json
{
  "status": {
    "state": "active",
    "lastChecked": "2023-06-29T10:15:30Z",
    "error": null,
    "metrics": {
      "averageResponseTime": 120,
      "successRate": 99.8,
      "lastUsed": "2023-06-29T09:45:22Z"
    }
  }
}
```

## Example Integration Instance

```json
{
  "instanceId": "xero_main",
  "integrationId": "xero",
  "name": "Main Xero Account",
  "description": "Primary Xero integration for company accounting",
  "context": {
    "type": "global"
  },
  "credentials": {
    // Encrypted in database
  },
  "config": {
    "tenant_id": "xyz123"
  },
  "status": {
    "state": "active",
    "lastChecked": "2024-03-15T10:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

## Database Schema

**Table: integration_instances**

| Field | Type | Description |
|----|----|----|
| id | UUID | Primary key |
| instance_id | VARCHAR(255) | Unique identifier for this instance |
| integration_definition_id | UUID | Reference to integration definition |
| name | VARCHAR(255) | Human-readable name for this instance |
| description | TEXT | Optional description |
| context_type | context_scope_enum | Context type ENUM ('global', 'client', 'user'), defaults to 'global' |
| context_id | VARCHAR(255) | ID of client/user if scoped (NULL if context_type is 'global') |
| credentials | BYTEA | Encrypted credentials. Physical type is BYTEA, storing JSON encrypted by the application layer (e.g., using pgcrypto). |
| config | JSONB | Instance specific configuration |
| status | JSONB | Current status information |
| created_at | TIMESTAMP | Creation timestamp |
| updated_at | TIMESTAMP | Last update timestamp |
| last_used_at | TIMESTAMP | When this integration was last used |

**Indexes:**

* `integration_instances_instance_id_idx` UNIQUE on `instance_id` (for lookups)
* `integration_instances_context_idx` on `(context_type, context_id)` (for finding instances in a context)
* `integration_instances_definition_idx` on `integration_definition_id` (for finding all instances of a definition)
* `integration_instances_status_idx` GIN on `status` (for finding instances by status)

**JSON Schema (credentials field):**

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "oauth2": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "access_token": { "type": "string" },
        "refresh_token": { "type": "string" },
        "expires_at": { "type": "string", "format": "date-time" }
      }
    },
    "apikey": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "key": { "type": "string" },
        "secret": { "type": "string" }
      }
    },
    "custom": {
      "type": "object"
    }
  }
}
```

## Security Considerations

Integration instances require special security attention:

* All credentials are encrypted at rest
* Access to credentials is strictly controlled
* Audit logging records all credential access
* Regular credential rotation is enforced where possible
* OAuth2 refresh tokens are automatically rotated
* Failed authentication attempts are monitored and reported
* Integration instance creation requires appropriate permissions

## Performance Considerations

For integration instances, consider these performance optimizations:

* Cache active integration instances for frequently used integrations
* Implement connection pooling for shared integrations
* Monitor connection usage patterns to optimize instance counts
* Implement circuit breakers for error-prone integrations
* Consider rate limiting to prevent external service throttling
* Batch operations where possible to reduce connection overhead

## Related Documentation

* [Integration Definitions](./integration_definitions.md) - Documentation for integration definitions
* [Task Definitions](./task_definitions.md) - Task definitions that use integrations
* [Workflow Definitions](./workflow_definitions.md) - Workflow definitions that incorporate tasks using integrations
* [Database Architecture](../database_architecture.md) - Overall database architecture
